.TH RAD2JPEG 1 "16 April 2017" "DEVA Project"
.SH NAME
rad2jpeg \- convert Radiance file to a JPEG file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\." \fBrad2jpeg\fR [--exposure=stops] [--autoadjust] [--unadjusted_values]
\."	input.hdr output.jpg
\fBrad2jpeg\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fIinput.hdr\fR | \-} \fIoutput.jpg\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert Radiance file to a JPEG file.  The input can optionally be "\-",
indicating that the input image should be read from standard input.
.PP
Output uses sRGB primaries and sRGB non-linear magnitude encoding.  This
is different from the Radiance conversion programs such as ra_tiff,
which use Radiance primaries and straight gamma non-linear magnitude
encoding.  The non-linear sRGB luminance encoding will generally result
in more accurate color rendition on modern displays than does the
gamma-based Radiance encoding.  Conversion to sRGB color primaries
typically has has little or no visual effect.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR
Adjust the exposure of the output file relative to the input file,
specified in f-stops (powers  of two).  E.g., \fB\-\-exposure=+2\fR
increases the luminance in the output by a factor or four, while
\fB\-\-exposure=-1\fR decreases the luminance by half.  Fractional
values are allowed.
.TP
\fB\-\-autoadjust\fB
Auto adjust brightness values to be in an approximately displayable range.
Can be combined with \fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
To convert a Radiance image to JPEG:
.IP "" .5i
rad2jpeg input.hdr output.jpg
.PP
To convert a Radiance image to JPEG with mild lightening:
.IP "" .5i
rad2jpeg --exposure=1.0 input.hdr output.jpg
.PP
To convert a Radiance image to JPEG with moderate darkening:
.IP "" .5i
rad2jpeg --exposure=-2.0 input.hdr output.jpg
.SH LIMITATIONS
When converted to 8-bit/color JPEG images, many high dynamic range
Radiance images will required tone mapping more sophisticated than
provided by this program.  (See the Radiance routines \fBpcond\fR and
\fBnormtiff\fR).
.PP
The \fB\-\-autoadjust\fR option is not particularly sophisticated, and
often produces less that desirable results.  This is particularly true
if there are regions in the image that much brighter than the rest of
the image.
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
