.TH RAD2TIFF 1 "1 March 2017" "DEVA Project"
.SH NAME
rad2tiff \- convert RADIANCE rgbe or xyze file to a TIFF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\." \fBrad2tiff\fR [--ldr] [--exposure=stops] [--fullrange] [--sRGBprimaries]
\."	[--autoadjust] [--unadjusted_values]
\."	[--compresszip] [--compresszipp] [--compresslzw] [--compresslzwp]
\."		input.hdr output.tif
\fBrad2tiff\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fIinput.hdr\fR | \-} \fIoutput.tif\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert RADIANCE rgbe or xyze file to a TIFF file.  The input can
optionally be "\-", indicating that the input image should be read from
standard input.  Output TIFF file can be either 32 bit float RGB
(default) or 8 bit RGB.  Pixel values in the TIFF file are adjusted to
take into account EXPOSURE records in the RADIANCE file and the
different units used in xyze files.
.PP
If a VIEW record is available in the header of the input RADIANCE file,
the program sets the FocalLengthIn35mmFormat EXIF tag in the output TIFF
file.  This allows keeping track of the field of view, which is
important in the deva-filer workflow.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-ldr\fR
Output is 8 bit RGB (low dynamic range, aka LDR) TIFF file, using the
sRGB color profile.  \fB\-\-sRGBprimaries\fR is implied.  Note that this
i is to uses different from the default behavior of the RADIANCE
\fBrad2tiff\fR program, which uses the same R, G, and B color primaries
for the TIFF and RADIANCE files, even though the RADIANCE color
primaries are different from the sRGB standard, and uses straight
gamma-based luminance encoding.
.TP
\fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR
Adjust the exposure of the output file relative to the input file,
specified in f-stops (powers  of two).  E.g., \fB\-\-exposure=+2\fR
increases the luminance in the output by a factor or four, while
\fB\-\-exposure=-1\fR decreases the luminance by half.  Fractional
values are allowed.
.TP
\fB\-\-autoadjust\fB
Auto adjust brightness values to be in an approximately displayable range.
Can be combined with \fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR.  Mostly for use with
\fB\-\-ldr\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-unadjusted_values\fB
Use numeric pixel values in RADIANCE file, ignoring EXPOSURE records in
file header.  Sometimes this leads to brightness values in an
approximately displayable range.  Can be combined with
\fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR.  Mostly for use with \fB\-\-ldr\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-fullrange\fB
With \fB\-\-ldr\fR, remaps the brightness brightness range to cover
nearly all of the 8-bit range (the top 5% of the range is excluded, to
avoid problems with LDC clipping).  Without \fB\-\-ldr\fR, the range of
brightness is remapped to [0.0--0.95].
.TP
\fB\-\-sRGBprimaries\fR
Use sRGB encoding in output file.  This will generally result in more
accurate color rendition on modern displays. Implied by the
\fB\-\-ldr\fR flag.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresszip\fR
Use zip compression for output.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresszipp\fR
Use zip compression with prediction for output.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresslzw\fR
Use LZW compression for output.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresslzwp\fR
Use LZW compression with predittion for output.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Does not currently support writing of Logluv encoded TIFF files or
STONITS TIFF tag.  The FocalLengthIn35mmFormat is stored as an integer,
and as a result field-of-view information is subject to quantization
error.
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
