.TH TIFF2RAD 1 "26 February 2017" "DeVAS Project"
.SH NAME
tiff2rad \- convert TIFF file to Radiance rgbe file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\." \fBtiff2rad\fR [--RGBencoding] input.tif output.hdr
\fBtiff2rad\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIinput.tif\fR {\fIoutput.hdr\fR | \-}
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert a TIFF file to a Radiance rgbe file.  Input TIFF file can be
8-bit grayscale, 8-bit RGB, or 32 bit float RGB. Output Radiance file is
always rgbe.  The output can optionally be "\-", indicating that the
output image should be written to standard output.
.PP
If STONITS tag is present in the TIFF file, the appropriate EXPOSURE
record is added to the Radiance output file header.
.PP
8-bit RGB and grayscale files are assumed to have sRGB luminance
encoding regardless of whether or not there is an attached color profile
and ignoring the actual color profile if attached.  This is different
from the Radiance \fBra_tiff\fR program for these data types, which
assumes straight gamma encoding.  Under most circumstances, using the
sRGB luminance encoding should produce more accurate images shown on
modern displays than does using gamma encoding.
As with the Radiance \fBra_tiff\fR program, the default behavior of
\fBtiff2rad\fR for 32 bit float input is to use the same R, G, and B
color primaries for the TIFF and Radiance files, even though the
Radiance color primaries are (slightly) different from the sRGB
standard.
.PP
If the input TIFF file has a FocalLengthIn35mmFormat EXIF tag, it is
used to create a VIEW record in the output radiance file with the
corresponding horizontal and vertical fields of view.  This is not
exact, since the TIFF tag is stored as an integer and so is subject to
quantization error.  Also, the conversion is done assuming that the 35
mm equivalent focal length is computed based on the image diagonal,
which is not always the case.  See
.IP
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/35_mm_equivalent_focal_length
.P
for more information on this.  This is important in the devas-filter
workflow, in particular allowing determination of the FOV for
photographically obtained imagry, assuming that the camera sets the tag
(and doesn't name the tag something else).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-RGBencoding\fR
Assume TIFF file is encoded using sRGB primaries for all pixel types,
and convert pixel colors to Radiance primaries.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Does not currently support reading of Logluv encoded TIFF files or
writing of Radiance xyze format files.
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
