.TH RAD2TIFF 1 "1 March 2017" "DEVA Project"
.SH NAME
rad2tiff \- convert Radiance file to a TIFF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\." \fBrad2tiff\fR [--ldr] [--exposure=stops] [--fullrange] [--sRGBencoding]
\."	[--autoadjust] [--unadjusted_values]
\."	[--compresszip] [--compresszipp] [--compresslzw] [--compresslzwp]
\."		input.hdr output.tif
\fBrad2tiff\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fIinput.hdr\fR | \-} \fIoutput.tif\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert Radiance file to a TIFF file.  The input can optionally be "\-",
indicating that the input image should be read from standard input.
Output TIFF file can be either 32 bit float RGB (default) or 8 bit RGB.
.PP
By convention, when a Radiance file is created the magnitude of the
numeric pixel values in the Radiance file are scaled to be in a range
suitable for direct display, assuming a value of 1.0 equals the maximum
value in each component.  The EXPOSURE record in the Radiance header is
then used to specify the scaling conversion to radiometric units. By
default, \fBrad2tiff\fR preserves this functionality, using the TIFF
STONIT tag to represent the scaling factor.
.PP
If a VIEW record is available in the header of the input Radiance file,
the program sets the FocalLengthIn35mmFormat EXIF tag in the output TIFF
file.  This allows keeping track of the field of view, which is
important in the deva-filer workflow.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-ldr\fR
Output is 8 bit RGB (low dynamic range, aka LDR) TIFF file, using the
sRGB color profile.  \fB\-\-sRGBencoding\fR is implied.  Note that this
is different from the behavior of the Radiance \fBra_tiff\fR program,
which uses straight gamma-based luminance encoding.  The non-linear sRGB
luminance encoding will generally result in more accurate color
rendition on modern displays than does the gamma-based Radiance
encoding. Radiance R, G, and B color primaries are also converted to
sRGB color primaries, though this usually has little or no visual
effect.
.TP
\fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR
Adjust the exposure of the output file relative to the input file,
specified in f-stops (powers  of two).  E.g., \fB\-\-exposure=+2\fR
increases the luminance in the output by a factor or four, while
\fB\-\-exposure=-1\fR decreases the luminance by half.  Fractional
values are allowed.
.TP
\fB\-\-autoadjust\fB
Auto adjust brightness values to be in an approximately displayable range.
Can be combined with \fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR.  Mostly for use with
\fB\-\-ldr\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-original-units\fB
Apply the scaling specified by the Radiance EXPOSURE record before
conversion.  This will result in correctly scaled radiometric units in
the output TIFF file.  Can be combined with \fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-photometric-units\fB
Apply the scaling specified by the Radiance EXPOSURE record and then
convert to photometric (liminance) units, as used in the Radiance XYZE
format.  This will result in correctly scaled photometric units in the
output TIFF file.  Can be combined with \fB\-\-exposure=\fIstop\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-fullrange\fB
With \fB\-\-ldr\fR, remaps the brightness brightness range to cover
nearly all of the 8-bit range (the top 5% of the range is excluded, to
avoid problems with LCD clipping).  Without \fB\-\-ldr\fR, the range of
brightness is remapped to [0.0--0.95].
.TP
\fB\-\-sRGBencoding\fR
Use sRGB primaries in output file.  This usually has little or no visual
effect.  Implied by the \fB\-\-ldr\fR flag.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresszip\fR
Use zip compression for output.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresszipp\fR
Use zip compression with prediction for output.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresslzw\fR
Use LZW compression for output.
.TP
\fB\-\-compresslzwp\fR
Use LZW compression with predittion for output.
.SH EXAMPLES
To convert a Radiance image to 8-bit/color TIFF:
.IP "" .5i
rad2tiff --ldr input.hdr output.tif
.PP
To convert a Radiance image to 8-bit/color TIFF with mild lightening:
.IP "" .5i
rad2tiff --ldr --exposure=1.0 input.hdr output.tif
.PP
To convert a Radiance image to 8-bit/color TIFF with moderate darkening:
.IP "" .5i
rad2tiff --ldr --exposure=-2.0 input.hdr output.tif
.PP
To convert a Radiance image to 32-bit/color floating point TIFF:
.IP "" .5i
rad2tiff input.hdr output.tif
.PP
This will copy the numeric values in the Radiance file to the TIFF file
as-is, with the scaling factor specified in the Radiance EXPOSURE record
encorporated into the STONITS tag of the TIFF image.
.PP
To convert a Radiance image to 32-bit/color floating point TIFF,
converting the numeric values in the Radiance file radiometric units in
the TIFF file:
.IP "" .5i
rad2tiff --original-units input.hdr output.tif
.PP
Use this if the TIFF file will be processed by software that expects
radiometric values but does not process the STONITS TIFF tag.
.PP
To convert a Radiance image to 32-bit/color floating point TIFF,
converting the numeric values in the Radiance file photometric units in
the TIFF file:
.IP "" .5i
rad2tiff --photometric-units input.hdr output.tif
.PP
Use this if the TIFF file will be processed by software that expects
photometric values but does not process the STONITS TIFF tag.
.SH LIMITATIONS
When converted to 8-bit/color TIFF images using the \fB\-\-ldr\fR
option, many high dynamic range Radiance images will required tone
mapping more sophisticated than provided by this program.  (See the
Radiance routines \fBpcond\fR and \fBnormtiff\fR).
.PP
The \fB\-\-autoadjust\fR option is not particularly sophisticated, and
often produces less that desirable results.  This is particularly true
if there are regions in the image that much brighter than the rest of
the image.
.PP
The FocalLengthIn35mmFormat is stored as an integer, and as a result
field-of-view information is subject to quantization error. 
.PP
Does not currently support writing of Logluv encoded TIFF files.
.SH AUTHOR
William B. Thompson
